Add JAVA getting started guide (#91)
memgraph/documentation: pages/client-libraries/java.mdx

---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Java client guide 

> Learn how to create a Java application application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to create a Java application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries. 
```

Memgraph currently depends on the [Neo4j Java driver](https://neo4j.com/docs/java-manual/current/) for Java programming language. 
Memgraph and Neo4j both support Bolt protocol and Cypher queries, which means that same driver can be used to connect to both databases. 

> This is very convenient if there is a need to switch between the two databases.  This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is very convenient if switching between the two databases is needed. This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 
```

not be supported in older versions of the driver.

<Callout type="info">

> Memgraph created [Bolt Java Driver](https://github.com/memgraph/bolt-java-driver) which can be used to connect to a running Memgraph instance. We still recommend you use the above mentioned driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memgraph created the [Bolt Java Driver](https://github.com/memgraph/bolt-java-driver), which can be used to connect to a running Memgraph instance. We still recommend you use the above-mentioned driver.
```

</Callout>

## Quickstart 

> The following guide will demonstrate how to start Memgraph, connect to Memgraph, seed the database with data, run simple read and write queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide will demonstrate how to start Memgraph, connect to Memgraph, seed the database with data, and run simple read and write queries. 
```

> Prerequisite that are necessary and sould be installed in your local enviroment are following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Necessary prerequisites that should be installed in your local environment are: 
```

- [Java 17](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

> This won't be covered in this guide, but you can find more information on how to install them in the links above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph 

Start by running Memgraph in the background. The easiest way to install and run Memgraph is by using Docker. Start the container with the following command:

```bash
docker run -it -p 7687:7687 -p 3000:3000 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph -e MEMGRAPH="--bolt-server-name-for-init=Neo4j/ --log-level=TRACE" memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

> This command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), which includes,[Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 7687 port. 
> Memgraph Lab is a web application that can be used to visualize your data, it is available on port 3000, and port 7444 is used for the logs that are visible in the Memgraph Lab, so both port 3000 for LAB and 7444 for logs need to be open. If the Memgraph Platform is running properly, open a URL http://localhost:3000 in your browser and you should see the Memgraph Lab UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), which includes [Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 7687 port. 
Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data. It's accessible at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) if Memgraph Platform is running correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs, which is why both of these ports need to be exposed.
```

For more information visit the getting started guide on [how to run Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Callout type="warning">

> Make sure that you have started memgraph with `--bolt-server-name-for-init=Neo4j/`. If you do not pass the init flag, you will not be able to connect to the database, and you will get following error: 
> Exception in thread "main" org.neo4j.driver.exceptions.UntrustedServerException: Server provides no product identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to start Memgraph with `--bolt-server-name-for-init=Neo4j/`. If you do not pass the init flag, you will not be able to connect to the database, and you will receive the following error: 
`Exception in thread "main" org.neo4j.driver.exceptions.UntrustedServerException: Server provides no product identifier`
```

</Callout>

### Open a favorite Java IDE

Start a new empty project in your favorite Java IDE, Eclipse, IntelliJ, VScode or any other. This step will depend on what type of aplication you are trying to build, but having a bare-bone project with a single `Main.java` file is enough for this guide.

### Add a dependecies for you project 

In order to use the Java driver you will need to add dependecies. If you are using Maven, add the following dependecies to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.neo4j.driver</groupId>
    <artifactId>neo4j-java-driver</artifactId>
    <version>5.11.0</version>
  </dependency>
  </dependencies>
```

If you are using Gradle, add the following dependecies to your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.neo4j.driver:neo4j-java-driver:5.11.0'
}
```

### Write a minimal working example 

> Once you have a proper Neo4j dependency, you can start writing your first Java application. Start by adding the the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have a proper Neo4j dependency, you can start writing your first Java application. Start by adding the following code:
```

            Result result = session.run(query);
            return result.list();
        }

    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        try (var helloMemgraph = new HelloMemgraph("bolt://localhost:7687", "", "")){
            // Create indexes
            helloMemgraph.createIndexes();
            // Create nodes and relationships
            helloMemgraph.createNodesAndRealationships();
            // Read nodes
            var result = helloMemgraph.readNodes();
            // Process results
            for (Record node : result) {
                Node n = node.get("n").asNode();
                System.out.println(n); // Node type
                System.out.println(n.asMap()); // Node properties
                System.out.println(n.id()); // Node internal ID
                System.out.println(n.labels()); // Node labels
                System.out.println(n.get("id").asLong()); // Node user defined id property
                System.out.println(n.get("name").asString()); // Node user defined name property
                System.out.println(n.get("description").asString()); // Node user defined description property
            }
        }
    }
```

> This code snippet is a minimal working example that will create a connection to the Memgraph database via Java driver, create indexes, create nodes and relationships, and read the data back. Take a look at the code in detail as

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code snippet is a minimal working example that will create a connection to the Memgraph database via Java driver, create indexes, create nodes and relationships, and read the data back. Take a look at the code in detail as
```

> it includes the comments to help you understand it. More details about the code snippet will be explained in the [Java client API usage and examples](#java-client-api-usage-and-examples) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it includes the comments to help you understand it. The [Java client API usage and examples](#java-client-api-usage-and-examples) section will explain the code snippet in more details.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Run the application

> Once code is in place, you should be able to run the application. If you are using an IDE, you can run the application from there. If everything is working properly, you should see the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once code is in place, you can run the application. If you are using an IDE, you can run the application from there. If everything is working correctly, you should see the following output:
```

```text
node<76>
{name=Memgraph, createdAt=1693389566657284, description=Fastest graph DB in the world!, id=1}
76
[Technology]
1
Memgraph
Fastest graph DB in the world!
```

### Visualize the data 

> To visualize objects created in the database with the the code snippet above, head over to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) and run `MATCH path=(n)-[p]-(m) RETURN path` in the *Query Execution* tab. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To visualize objects created in the database with the code snippet above, head over to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) and run `MATCH path=(n)-[p]-(m) RETURN path` in the *Query Execution* tab. 
```

> That query will visualize the created nodes and relationships. By clicking on a node or relationship, you can explore different properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query will visualize the created nodes and relationships. By clicking on a node or relationship, you can explore different properties.
```

![java-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/java/java-quick-start.png)

### Next steps 

> This makes a good starting point for Java application. For more information on how to use the Java driver, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can continue building your Java applications. For more information on how to use the Java driver, 
```

> continue reading the guide under [Java client API usage and examples](#Java-client-api-usage-and-examples). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue reading about [Java client API usage and examples](#Java-client-api-usage-and-examples). 
```

</Steps>

> <Callout type="info">
> Memgraph created [Bolt Java Driver](https://github.com/memgraph/bolt-java-driver) which can be used to connect to a running Memgraph instance. But we still recommend you use the above mentioned driver.
> </Callout> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">
Memgraph created [Bolt Java Driver](https://github.com/memgraph/bolt-java-driver) which can be used to connect to a running Memgraph instance. But we still recommend you use the above mentioned driver.
</Callout> 
```

Is it necessary to mention this twice? If yes, update the language with my corrections

Author: ```suggestion
```
Sorry, it should be deleted here.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Java client API usage and examples

After a brief [Quickstart guide](#quickstart), this section will go into more detail on how to use the Java driver API, explain code snippets, and provide more examples. Feel free to skip to the section that interests you the most.

### Database connection 

> Once the database is running, and driver is installed or available in Java, you should be able to connect to the database with one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the database is running, and driver is installed or available in Java, you should be able to connect to the database in one of two ways::
```

- [Connect without authentication (default)](#connect-without-authentication-default)
- [Connect with authentication](#connect-with-authentication)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Connect without authentication (default)

By default, the Memgraph database is running without authentication, which means that you can connect to the database without providing any credentials (username and password).
To connect to Memgraph, create a driver object with the appropriate URI and credentials arguments. If you're running Memgraph locally, the URI should be similar to `bolt://localhost:7687`, and if you are running Memgraph on a remote server, 
replace `localhost` with the appropriate IP address. 

> If you ran Memgraph on port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ran Memgraph on a port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> By default, you can set username and password in the `AuthTokens.basic("", "")` argument as empty strings. This means that you are connecting without authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, you can set the username and password in the `AuthTokens.basic("", "")` argument as empty strings. This means that you are connecting without authentication.
```

To connect a Java driver to the Memgraph database, you can use the following snippet: 

```java {8-9}
import org.neo4j.driver.AuthTokens;
import org.neo4j.driver.Driver;
import org.neo4j.driver.GraphDatabase;

public class HelloMemgraph implements AutoCloseable {
    private final Driver driver;

    public HelloMemgraph(String uri, String user, String password) {
        driver = GraphDatabase.driver(uri, AuthTokens.basic(user, password));
    }

    @Override
    public void close() throws RuntimeException {
        driver.close();
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try (var helloMemgraph = new HelloMemgraph("bolt://localhost:7687", "", "")) {
            // Use the driver
        }
    }
}
```

> Notice that `AuthTokens.basic` takes two arguments, the first is `username` and the second is `password`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Notice that `AuthTokens.basic` takes two arguments, the first is `username` and the second is `password`. 
```

For both username and password, you can pass an empty string, this means that you are connecting without authentication.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Connect with authentication

> In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to set up a user that has `username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by executing the following query: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to create a user that has a `username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by executing the following query: 
```

```cypher
CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'memgraph';
```

Then, you can connect to the database with the following snippet:

```java
import org.neo4j.driver.AuthTokens;
import org.neo4j.driver.Driver;
import org.neo4j.driver.GraphDatabase;

public class HelloMemgraph implements AutoCloseable {
    private final Driver driver;

    public HelloMemgraph(String uri, String user, String password) {
        driver = GraphDatabase.driver(uri, AuthTokens.basic(user, password));
    }

    @Override
    public void close() throws RuntimeException {
        driver.close();
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
      String uri = "bolt://localhost:7687";
      String username = "memgraph";
      String password = "memgraph";
      try (var helloMemgraph = new HelloMemgraph(uri, username, password)) {
          // Use the driver
        }
    }
}
```

> If you receive the following error: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may receive this error:  
```

```Exception in thread "main" org.neo4j.driver.exceptions.SecurityException: Authentication failure```

The error indicates that you have probably enabled authentication in Memgraph, but are trying to connect without authentication. For more details on how to set authentication further, visit the [Memgraph authentication guide](/configuration/security/#creating-user).

#### Java client connection lifecycle management 

> Once driver connection to Memgraph is established, it doesn't need to be closed. It's sufficient to open a single client connection to Memgraph and use it for all queries. Once client connection is open, we can use 
> Java AutoCloseable interface to manage the lifecycle of the client. The lifecycle of the client is tied to your application lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the driver connection to Memgraph is established, it doesn't need to be closed. It's sufficient to open a single client connection to Memgraph and use it for all queries. Once the client connection is open, the lifecycle can be managed using the Java AutoCloseable interface. The client's lifetime is tied to the application lifecycle.
```

The following implementation of `AutoCloseable` interface will make sure to close the client connection once the application is finished: 

```java
@Override
public void close() throws RuntimeException {
    driver.close();
}
```

> Keep in mind that driver object is thread safe, and can be reused between different threads. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the driver object is thread-safe and can be reused between different threads. 
```

### Query the database 

> After connecting your driver to the Memgraph you can start running some queries, the simplest way to run the query is via writeTransaction and readTransaction methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After connecting your driver to Memgraph you can start running queries. The simplest way to run the query is via `writeTransaction` and `readTransaction` methods.
```

Reviewer: Do methods have () or not?

#### Run a write query 

The following query will create a node inside the database: 

```java
public void createNode() {
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        session.writeTransaction(tx -> {
            tx.run("CREATE (n:Technology {name:'Memgraph'})");
            return null;
        });
    }
}
```

> The session object takes a SessionConfig object as its argument. The SessionConfig object is used to specify the database name, and other session configuration options. Session API supports writeTransaction and readTransaction methods.
> The writeTransaction method of a Neo4j Session object takes a TransactionWork functional interface as its argument. The TransactionWork interface has a single method execute, which takes a Transaction object as its argument and returns a value of type T, void in this case. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The session object takes a SessionConfig object as its argument. The SessionConfig object is used to specify the database name, and other session configuration options. Session API supports writeTransaction and readTransaction methods.
The writeTransaction method of a Neo4j Session object takes a TransactionWork functional interface as its argument. The TransactionWork interface has a single method execute, which takes a Transaction object as its argument and returns a value of type T, void in this case. 
```

Please add code formatting where needed

#### Run a read query 

> Similar to the write query, there is a `readTranasction()` method that can be used to run read queries. The difference is that read will actually return the results of the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the write query, `readTranasction()` method can be used to run read queries. The difference is that read will return the results of the query.
```

The following query will read data from the database: 

```java
public void readNode() {
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        List<Record> result = session.readTransaction(tx -> {
            Result queryResult = tx.run("MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n");
            List<Record> records = queryResult.list();
            return records;
        });
        System.out.println(result);

        // Print each node as map
        for (Record record : result) {
            System.out.println(record.get("n").asMap());
        }
    }
}
```

> In this query, each `Record` contains a `Node` accessible by the `asMap()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above query, each `Record` contains a `Node` accessible by the `asMap()` method.
```

> #### Run a query with parameters 

Reviewer: In Go, this section i called Running queries with property map

Author: ```suggestion
#### Running queries with property map
```

If you want to pass a property map to the query, you can do it like this:

```
public void createNodeWithProperties() {
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        Map< String, Object > properties = new HashMap<>();
        properties.put("name", "Memgraph");
        properties.put("type", "graph database");

        session.writeTransaction(tx -> {
            tx.run("CREATE (n:Technology {name: $name, type: $type})", properties);
            return null;
        });
    }
}
```

Using this approach, the queries will not contain hard-coded values, they can be more dynamic.

### Process the results

> To read results and serve them back to the Java application, they need need to be handled. Java is a statically typed language and proper types need to be handled. 
> Depending on the type of request made, you can receive different results. Let's go over a few basic examples of how to handle different types and access properties of the returned results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to serve the read results back to the Java application, their types need to be handled properly because Java is a statically typed language. 
Depending on the type of request made, you can receive different results. Let's go over a few basic examples of how to handle different types and access properties of the returned results.
```

#### Proces the Node results 

Run the following query:

```java
public List<Record> readNodes() {
    String query = "MATCH (n:Technology {name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n;";
    try (Session session = driver.session()) {
        Result result = session.run(query);
        return result.list();
    }

}
```

Records field contains all the records returned by the query. To process the results, you can iterate over the records and access the fields you need. 

> Here is the example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example: 
```

```java
for (Record record : result) {
    System.out.println(record.get("n").asMap());
}
```
```text
{name=Memgraph, createdAt=1693389566657284, description=Fastest graph DB in the world!, id=1}
```

> Lets break down the result. So for each returned `Record` from the database, it is getting converted to a map, now we can access the `n` field, which is a `Node` returned from a query. This means that you have to cast them to the relevant Java types.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, each returned `Record` is converted into a map. From the map, you can access the `n` field, which is a `Node` returned from a query. The returned record and all its properties are of type `any`. This means you must cast them to the relevant Java type if you want to use methods or features defined on such types. 
```
 Is this OK? I C/P from Go

> To access individual properties of the `Node`, you have the following options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access individual properties of the `Node` using one of the following options: 
```

```java
Node n = node.get("n").asNode();
System.out.println(n); // node<65>
System.out.println(n.asMap()); // {name=Memgraph, createdAt=1693400712958077, description=Fastest graph DB in the world!, id=1}
System.out.println(n.id()); // 65
System.out.println(n.labels()); // [Technology]
System.out.println(n.get("id").asLong()); // 1
System.out.println(n.get("name").asString()); // Memgraph
System.out.println(n.get("description").asString()); // Fastest graph DB in the world!
```

You can access all `Node` properties by casting and accessing `Node`. Keep in mind that the `id()` returns the internal ID of the node, which is not the same as the user-defined ID, and it should not 
be used for any application-level logic.

### Processing Relationship results

You can also receive a `Relationship` from the query. For example: 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Here is the example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        session.writeTransaction(tx -> {
            tx.run(query);
            return null;
        });
    }
}
//Read relationship
public List<Record> readRelationship() {
    String query = "MATCH (d:Developer)-[r:LOVES]->(t:Technology) RETURN r";
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        List<Record> result = session.readTransaction(tx -> {
            Result queryResult = tx.run(query);
            List<Record> records = queryResult.list();
            return records;
        });
        return result;
    }
}

//Process results
for (Record rel : records) {
    Relationship relationship = rel.get("r").asRelationship();
    System.out.println(relationship);
    System.out.println(relationship.asMap());
    System.out.println(relationship.id());
    System.out.println(relationship.type());
    System.out.println(relationship.startNodeId());
    System.out.println(relationship.endNodeId());
    System.out.println(relationship.get("id").asLong());
}
```

> You can access the `Relationship` properties in the same way as you access the `Node` properties. Id values from `startNodeId()` and `endNodeId()` are the internal IDs of the start and end node of the relationship, do not used them in your application logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can access `Relationship` properties in the same way as you access the `Node` properties. ID values from `startNodeId()` and `endNodeId()` methods are the internal IDs of the start and end node of the relationship. Do not use them in your application logic.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Processing Path results 

You can receive `Path` from the database, using the following construct:

```java
public List<Record> readPath() {
    String query = "MATCH path=(d:Developer)-[r:LOVES]->(t:Technology) RETURN path";
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        List<Record> result = session.readTransaction(tx -> {
            Result queryResult = tx.run(query);
            List<Record> records = queryResult.list();
            return records;
        });
        return result;
    }
}

for (Record path : path_records) {
    Path p = path.get("path").asPath();
    System.out.println(p);
    System.out.println(p.start());
    System.out.println(p.end());
    System.out.println(p.length());
    System.out.println(p.nodes());
    System.out.println(p.relationships());
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Path will contain [Nodes](#process-the-node-result) and [Relationships[#process-the-relationship-result], that can be accessed in the same way as in the previous examples, by casting them to the relevant type.

#### Types mapping Cypher and Java 

 Here is the full table of the mapping between Memgraph Cypher types and the types used in the Java driver:

|  Cypher Type | Driver Type        |
|-------------:|:-------------------|
|          Null| null               |
|       String | String             |
|      Boolean | boolean            |
|      Integer | long               |
|        Float | double             |
|         List | List(Object)       |
|          Map | Map < String, Object >  |
|         Node | Node               |
| Relationship | Relationship       |
|         Path | Path               |
|     Duration | IsoDuration        |
|         Date | LocalDate          |
|    LocalTime | LocalTime          |
|LocalDateTime | LocalDateTime      |

> Keep in mind that Memgraph does not support Timezones, ByteArray and Point at the moment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that, at the moment, Memgraph does not support Timezones, ByteArray and Point. 
```

### Transaction management

Transaction is a unit of work that is executed on the database, it could be some basic read, write or complex set of steps in form of series of queries. There can be multiple ways to mange transaction, but usually, they are managed automatically by the driver or manually by the explicit code steps. Transaction management defines how to handle the transaction, when to commit, rollback, or terminate it.

#### Simple transaction management  

> Simple transaction managment provide a standard blocking style API for Cypher execution. Simple transaction managment provides the easiest programming style to work with since API calls are executed in a strictly sequential fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple transaction management provides a standard blocking style API for Cypher execution. It also provides the most straightforward programming style to work with since API calls are executed strictly sequentially.
```

##### Session management

> Before doing any transaction mangment, you need to do is to create a session. Session is a specific connection to the database, that can live for certian time span. Session connection is lightweight and should be closed after the 
> wanted queries has been executed. There is no need to keep the session open for the whole duration of the application. To open a session, use the code snippet below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before doing any transaction management, you need to create a session. A session is a specific connection to the database that can live for a certain period. The session connection is lightweight and should be closed after the 
wanted queries have been executed instead of keeping it open for the whole duration of the application. To open a session, use the code snippet below: 
```

```java
try (Session session = driver.session(...)) {
    // transactions go here
}
```

>  This Java try-with-resources statement will automatically close the session once the code block is finished. Sessions are not thread safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Java "try-with-resources" statement will automatically close the session once the code block is finished. Sessions are not thread-safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
```

> With sessions, you can use the following transaction management methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following transaction management methods with sessions:
```

 - `writeTransaction` - executes a managed explicit transaction workload in write access mode with retry logic.
 - `readTransaction` - executes a managed explicit transaction workload in read access mode with retry logic.
 - `run` - executes a implicit auto-commit transaction and returns result.

<Callout type="warning">

Error with multicommand transactions

If you experience `Index manipulation not allowed in multicommand transactions` error,  use [implicit (or auto-commit) transactions](#implicit-transactions) instead.

</Callout>

##### Managed transactions

> Let's take a look into the basic example if you want to read data from the database.
> Now you can run simple transaction via `writeTransaction` like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at the basic example of reading data from the database.
Run a simple transaction using the `writeTransaction`: 
```

```java
public void createNode() {
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        session.writeTransaction(tx -> {
            tx.run("CREATE (n:Technology {name:'Memgraph'})");
            tx.run("CREATE (n:Technology {name:'Java'})");
            //Some other queries 
            return null;
        });
    }
}
```

> As you can see previus examples from guide has used the simple transaction management, it alows you to run multiple queries in a single transaction and have a control over the transaction. You could have multiple logic blocks in the transaction, rollback or end the transaction if needed. 
> Also mange transaction have a retry logic, which means that if the transaction fails, it will be retried. Managed transactions are the most flexible way to run a Cypher query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the previous examples from this guide have used simple transaction management. It allows you to run multiple queries in a single transaction and have control over the transaction. You could have multiple logic blocks in the transaction, rollback or end the transaction if needed. 
Also, managed transactions have a retry logic, which means that if the transaction fails, it will be retried. Managed transactions are the most flexible way to run a Cypher query.
```

##### Implicit transactions 

> Implicit auto commit queries are the simplest way to run a Cypher query since they won't be automatically retried as with writeTransaction and readTransaction. 
> With implicit auto commit transactions, you don't have the same control of transaction as with manged explicit transactions. 
> 
> Here is the example of implicit transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implicit auto-commit queries are the simplest way to run a Cypher query since they aren't automatically retried like `writeTransaction` and `readTransaction` are. 
With implicit auto-commit transactions, you don't have the same control of transactions as with managed explicit transactions. 

Here is an example of an implicit transaction:
```
```suggestion
Implicit auto commit queries are the simplest way to run a Cypher query since they won't be automatically retried as with writeTransaction and readTransaction. 
With implicit auto commit transactions, you don't have the same control of transaction as with manged explicit transactions. 

Here is the example of implicit transaction:
```

```java
public void createNode() {
    try (Session session = driver.session(SessionConfig.forDatabase("memgraph"))) {
        session.run("CREATE (n:Technology {name:'Memgraph'})");
    }
}
```

As you can see in this case you can run a simple query without any transaction management. This simplifys the experience but you lose some flexibility when running the queries. 

> Since explicit transaction are multi-statement transactions, creating an index, constraints, auth config queries are not possible in multi-line transactions. Hence, you need to use implicit transactions for those queries.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
The above code runs a simple query without any transaction management. It simplifies the experience, but you lose flexibility when running queries. 
Since explicit transactions are multi-statement transactions, creating an index, constraints or auth config queries is not possible in multi-line transactions. Therefore, you need to use implicit transactions for those queries.
```

#### Asynchronous transaction managment

> ##### Session management

Reviewer: Some content between the headings?

Author: I have added a bit of context regarding Futures and content between hedings.

> Asynchronous sessions provide a API to work with futures. This allows client applications to work within asynchronous code bases. Asynchronous sessions are not thread safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
> Session lifetime begins with session construction, session is typicaly closed automatically when all results are consumed. 
> 
> The session is opened with the following code snippet: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronous sessions provide an API to work with futures. This allows client applications to work within asynchronous code bases. Asynchronous sessions are not thread-safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
Session lifetime begins with session construction, and the session is typically closed automatically when all results are consumed. 

The session is opened using the following code snippet: 
```

to work with futures? What does that mean?

Author: ```suggestion
Asynchronous sessions provide an API to work with `Futures`. Asynchronous sessions are not thread-safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
Session lifetime begins with session construction, and the session is typically closed automatically when all results are consumed. 
The session is opened using the following code snippet: 
```

> Asynchronous sessions provide a API to work with futures. This allows client applications to work within asynchronous code bases. Asynchronous sessions are not thread safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
> Session lifetime begins with session construction, session is typicaly closed automatically when all results are consumed. 
> 
> The session is opened with the following code snippet: 
> 
> ```java
>  var session = driver.session(AsyncSession.class);
> ```
> 
> Via async session API you can use following transaction management methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronous sessions provide an API to work with futures. This allows client applications to work within asynchronous code bases. Asynchronous sessions are not thread-safe, so you should create a new session for each thread.
Session lifetime begins with session construction, and the session is typically closed automatically when all results are consumed. 

The session is opened using the following code snippet: 

```java
 var session = driver.session(AsyncSession.class);
```

You can use the following transaction management methods via async session API.
```

to work with futures? What does that mean?

> Via async session API you can use following transaction management methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following transaction management methods via async session API.
```

 - `writeTransactionAsync` - executes a manged transaction workload in write access mode with retry logic.
 - `readTransactionAsync` - executes a managed transaction workload in read access mode with retry logic.
 - `runAsync` - executes a implicit auto-commit transaction and returns result.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

##### Managed transactions 

> Let's take a look into the basic example if you want to read data from the database via Async session API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a basic example of reading data from the database via Async session API:
```

```java
public CompletionStage<ResultSummary> readNodesAsync() {
    String query = "MATCH (n:Technology {name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n;";
    var session = driver.session(AsyncSession.class);

    return session.executeReadAsync(tx -> tx.runAsync(query)
            .thenCompose(cursor -> cursor.forEachAsync(record ->
                    // asynchronously print every record
                    System.out.println(record.get(0).asString()))));

}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

##### Implicit auto-commit asynchronous transactions

> Implicit auto commit queries are the simplest way to run a Cypher query since they won't be automatically retried as with writeTransactionAsync and readTransactionAsync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implicit auto-commit queries are the simplest way to run a Cypher query since they aren't automatically retried like `writeTransactionAsync` and `readTransactionAsync` are.
```

> Here is the example of implicit transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of an implicit transaction:
```

```java
public CompletionStage<ResultSummary> createNodeAsync() {
    String query = "CREATE (n:Technology {name:'Memgraph'})";
    var session = driver.session(AsyncSession.class);

    return session.runAsync(query)
            .thenCompose(ResultCursor::consumeAsync)
            .whenComplete((resultSummary, error) -> session.closeAsync());
}
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
